- So now that we've talked about transactions themselves.
I want to jump in and show you
how to set up a commit and rollback block
on one of the methods that we've previously created.
So let's jump into our ID,
open up her project and go to source main Java,
our base package. And let's open up our customer DAO,
go ahead and shrink this one to down.
And then we're going to go to our update method.
And we're going to do our update method because this is
where you would actually set a transaction boundary
on an update or an ad, for instance.
It's relatively simple to do this
so after we create our customer
and before we create our statement, I want to do a try block
and in our try block were you're going to do
this.connection that set auto commit,
and we will set it equal to false.
Now you'll notice we need to, once again,
as we've done so many times catch a sequel exception
and we will do a print stack trace
and I throw new runtime exception.
And now that starts our
actual auto commit section to be false.
So now we are in a transaction boundary.
So we're going to go down here to the bottom
after we execute but before we read,
because the read really
should not be part of the transaction,
we want to make sure that we write it to disk.
So we're going to use this.connection.commit.
And now in our exception block,
we would do something like this.
Once again, a try to catch block,
this.connection.rollback.
Now, unfortunately we have to catch
the SQL exception once again,
and we will print it
and we will throw a new runtime exception,
sending it our SQL exception.
Now at its core,
that's all there is to doing a rollback segment.
You'll see that I had to deal
with a bunch of runtime exceptions
because of the way the JDBC works.
And we're going to talk about exception handling next,
but this is all there is to it.
You can run this code and it will run just fine,
and it will do what we would expect it to.
If there was a failure,
it would not commit the data to the database.
That's all there is to roll back segment.
Now I've made this very, very simple, and in the real world,
you're going to have very complex tasks.
And you're going to have to determine where in your code
is the transactional boundary.
And that is actually the really hard part is figuring out
how many things do I put in the transaction
without number one, overwhelming it.
And number two, getting the commit blocks that I want
so that I don't ruin the database for someone else
or ruin the database for the session that I'm in.
So transaction management is hard.
It's beyond the scope of this course,
but you've now at least been introduced
to what it looks like
from a very simple method perspective.
Most of the time,
it won't be in your DAO it's going to be much higher up,
but this gets you to the point.